Introduction of Complete Devops :


Software Architechre

1. one tier
2. two tier
3. three tier
4 N- tier

Note : tier means server. Server is used to serves services to end user's

In real time we use only three server in real life

1 Web server : it is use to show frontend of the application : It use presentation layer . Prgogramming lang: HTML, CSS, JS
2. app server : it is also called logic layer. it is use to add logic code Programing lang: C++ , java, .net , php
3 db servder : it is use db layr. It is use to store and retrieve data from database : Prgmming layer: MYsql ,postgresql, monggodb

One Tier application : Standalone application , it is run on local machine , no internet connection requires . Ex: VLC media player

Two Tier application : Client Server application. This application work on local system. it require internet connection Ex; Banking application

Three Tier application : Web application (Real time) . Everything run with internet whtupps , youtube


Create a webServer on AWS Machine :
 
  Create a Webserver and show the live ENv

Server : Servers the service to end user

Web Server : to show the application 

application server : Logic 

db server : database layer



How to Create web server :

To Create server we need to cloud plateform and cloud account

AWS Cloud : EC2 Instances Elastic compute cloud

There are 7 steps to create EC2 Elastic compute 

Server = computer

What is operating system : we use to interact with electronic device we use operating system

1. TAGS = Name (Giveing name of the server which type of server)

2. AMI(Amazon machine image) = OS (Operating system means to communication with computer). Always use latest image

3. Instance_Type = CPU + RAM (Processor and ram)

4.  Key_Pair = Login (keypair to login machine or login to server) Private key is user to login server (public key = (it manage aws) and private key(user))

5. Network = VPC(virtual private cloud) We can create own network. SECURITY GROUPS (when application run on specific port numbers 0 - 65535)

6. Storage = 8 GB (ROM) and maximum 16 TB

7. Summary = To Review (All the details that u set)


SSH -Secure shell port number 22 . when to comnucate with servers the ssh use
All Traffic means use port 0 to 65535



Operating system: Use to Comunicate with Server or system 

THree type of operating system

1. Linux , Windows and Mac

Why to Use Linux

Linux have to lot of advanteage. 

1. it is free and open source
2. No need to install antivirus
3. It is not hang : Performance is to Good
4. Multi user based . with in time multiple user can work at a same time through ssh to take access on it
5. Multi tasking (On a single time it can play many things like playing game, videos)

From 100 96% server is running on linux . As a devops engineer we work on server so need to learn liunux

MOdes

Two type of modes 

GUI : Graphical user interface 
CLI : Command line interface


In AWS every time we work with sudo user on AWS.
To switch from ec2-suer to root we use 'sudo -i'
it is also use in smart phone, super computer, smart watch

How to check CPU and memory information

1. top
2. cat /proc/cpuinfo
3. free -m
4. lscpu

To see the memory
1. cat /proc/cpuinfo
2. lsmem
3. free -m 

Git is written in C programming is is developed in 2005
Git is open source and free.
Git and linux is invented by Linux Tornwell. It will maintain multiple version of same files. Git is developed in 2005 

History of GIT
SCCM 1972 is track only one file 
RCS it track multiple file but not directory

Main diffrenece between SVN and GIT is that GIt source code is store on multiple plcaes. SVN source store only on one place. SVN is centerlized and GIt is distributed 


Git Archetecture

Git mainly have three stages

1 Working DIrectory: Where we write source code

2. Staging Area : Track files 

3. Repository : Here we store track records

Git 

To configure git user and config

git --config user.email kulbeers@vehant.com
git --config user.name kulbeers

git init : when this command is run it create .git which is to initalize git local repository

git add . : To add file's in tracking and staging area

git commit -m "learning" : to store in repository

To show commit 

git log  or if we want to show last git log -2

git show is use to show particular commit id commit what files


To create a branch in git repository 

git branch name_of_branch

To switch one branch to another branch

git checkout branch_name

Checkout is used to switch from one branch to another branch

Default branch is master in git .

Note: When we done an inital commit then only default branch is create . If we not commit a file not create a branch. Default branch is master 
When we change from one branch to another branch it carry files


Now push code to github

1. Create repo on github

2. After create a repo on github. To connect local repo with github repo we use

git remote add origin https://github.com/kulbeers8/Learning_Document.git

PUSH : Local to remote repo
local repo is .git and remote repo is Learning_Document.git
PULL : remote to local

After 2021 Git have introduce token option instead of password to push code on github 


Token Generation

<First Go to account -> Setting -> Developer account -> PAT(Personal access token classic) -> Generate New token 

Token 

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

git push origin nameofbranch

username of github: 

password of github: but here we use token

if we want to ignore some of the files then we add these file name in .gitignore file

If we want to change the name of the git reposittory then we use

git branch -m oldbranchname newbranchname

file that are mentioned in .gitignore file it will never go to git hub  
